Entity Configurations and Metadata for PID/(Q)EAA Providers and RPs (#328)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-entity-configuration.rst

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst
.. _Entity_Configuration_Credential_Issuer:

Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers
--------------------------------------------

> The PID/(Q)EAA Providers is a Federation Entity and, according to Section :ref:`Configuration of the Federation`, it MUST make a *well-known* endpoint available containing its Entity Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PID/(Q)EAA Providers, as a Federation Entity, are required to adhere to the guidelines outlined in Section :ref:`Configuration of the Federation`. Specifically, they MUST provide a well-known endpoint that hosts their Entity Configuration.
```

> The PID/(Q)EAA Providers, as a Federation Entity, are required to adhere to the guidelines outlined in Section :ref:`Configuration of the Federation`. Specifically, they MUST provide a well-known endpoint that hosts their Entity Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PID/(Q)EAA Providers, as Federation Entity, are required to adhere to the guidelines outlined in Section :ref:`Configuration of the Federation`. Specifically, they MUST provide a well-known endpoint that hosts their Entity Configuration.
```

> The Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers MUST contain the claims as defined in Sections :ref:`Entity Configuration Leaves and Intermediates` and :ref:`Entity Configurations Common Parameters`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers MUST contain the parameters as defined in the Sections :ref:`Entity Configuration Leaves and Intermediates` and :ref:`Entity Configurations Common Parameters`. 
```

> The Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers MUST contain the parameters as defined in the Sections :ref:`Entity Configuration Leaves and Intermediates` and :ref:`Entity Configurations Common Parameters`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers MUST contain the parameters defined in the Sections :ref:`Entity Configuration Leaves and Intermediates` and :ref:`Entity Configurations Common Parameters`. 
```

The PID/(Q)EAA Providers MUST provide the following metadata types:

  - `federation_entity`
  - `oauth_authorization_server`
  - `openid_credential_issuer`

> In case the PID/(Q)EAA Providers authenticate the Users using their Wallet Instance, then the metadata for *wallet_relying_party* MUST be provided in addition to the metadata above. In case a national eID scheme is used by the PID/(Q)EAA Providers for the User authentication, they MAY include a metadata for *openid_relying_party* within their Entity Configuration. The *openid_relying_party* metadata MUST be compliant with the current version of `SPID/CIE id OIDC Technical Specification <https://docs.italia.it/italia/spid/spid-cie-oidc-docs/it/versione-corrente/index.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the (Q)EAA Providers authenticate the Users using their Wallet Instance, then the metadata for *wallet_relying_party* MUST be provided in addition to the metadata above. In case a national eID scheme is used by the PID/(Q)EAA Providers for the User authentication, they MAY include a metadata for *openid_relying_party* within their Entity Configuration. The *openid_relying_party* metadata MUST be compliant with the current version of `SPID/CIE id OIDC Technical Specification <https://github.com/italia/spid-cie-oidc-docs>`_.
```

> In case the (Q)EAA Providers authenticate the Users using their Wallet Instance, then the metadata for *wallet_relying_party* MUST be provided in addition to the metadata above. In case a national eID scheme is used by the PID/(Q)EAA Providers for the User authentication, they MAY include a metadata for *openid_relying_party* within their Entity Configuration. The *openid_relying_party* metadata MUST be compliant with the current version of `SPID/CIE id OIDC Technical Specification <https://github.com/italia/spid-cie-oidc-docs>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where the (Q)EAA Providers authenticate Users using their Wallet Instance, then the metadata for *wallet_relying_party* MUST be provided in addition to the metadata above. In case a national eID scheme is used by the PID/(Q)EAA Providers for the User authentication, they MAY include a metadata for *openid_relying_party* within their Entity Configuration. The *openid_relying_party* metadata MUST be compliant with the current version of `SPID/CIE id OIDC Technical Specification <https://github.com/italia/spid-cie-oidc-docs>`_.
```

Metadata for federation_entity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The *federation_entity* metadata MUST contain the claims as defined in Section :ref:`Metadata of federation_entity Leaves`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *federation_entity* metadata MUST contain the parameters as defined in Section :ref:`Metadata of federation_entity Leaves`.
```

Metadata for oauth_authorization_server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The *oauth_authorization_server* metadata MUST contain the following claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *oauth_authorization_server* metadata MUST contain the following parameters.
```

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**
  * - **issuer**
    - It MUST contain an HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID/(Q)EAA Provider.
  * - **pushed_authorization_request_endpoint**

>     - The URL of the pushed authorization request endpoint at which a Wallet Instance MUST post an authorization request to exchange for a *request_uri* value usable at the authorization endpoint. See :rfc:`9126#as_metadata`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The URL of the pushed authorization request endpoint is where a Wallet Instance MUST submit an authorization request to obtain a *request_uri* value, which can then be used at the authorization endpoint. See :rfc:`9126#as_metadata`.
```

  * - **grant_types_supported**
    - JSON array containing a list of the supported grant type values. The authorization server MUST support *authorization_code*. 
  * - **token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported**
    - JSON array containing a list of supported client authentication methods. The Token Endpoint MUST support *attest_jwt_client_auth* as defined in `[draft-ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth-03] <https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth-03.html#name-registration-of-attest_jwt_>`_.
  * - **token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_values_supported**
    - JSON array containing a list of the JWS signing algorithms ("*alg*" values) supported by the token endpoint for the signature on the JWT used to authenticate the client at the Token Endpoint. See :rfc:`8414#section-2`.
  * - **request_object_signing_alg_values_supported**
    - JSON array containing a list of the JWS signing algorithms ("*alg*" values) supported for Request Objects. See `[openid-connect-discovery-1_0] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderMetadata>`_.
  * - **jwks**

>     - JSON Web Key Set document, passed by value, containing the protocol specific keys for the authorization server. See `OIDC-FED`_ Draft 36 Section 5.2.1 and `JWK`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - JSON Web Key Set containing the cryptographic keys for the authorization server. See `OIDC-FED`_ Draft 36 Section 5.2.1 and `JWK`_.
```

Metadata for openid_credential_issuer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *openid_credential_issuer* metadata MUST contain the following claims.

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**

>   * - **credential_issuer**

Reviewer: authorization_servers is conditional required here, because VCI may be a different entity than the AS

https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#section-11.2.3

Author: I referred to this comment in a new issue (#333) as we currently don't support this feature in the current implementation

    - The PID/(Q)EAA Provider identifier. It MUST be a case sensitive URL using HTTPS scheme as defined in `OpenID4VCI`_ Draft 13 Sections 11.2.1 and 11.2.3.
  * - **credential_endpoint**
    - URL of the credential endpoint. See `OpenID4VCI`_ Draft 13 Section 11.2.3.
  * - **revocation_endpoint**
    - URL of the revocation endpoint. See :rfc:`8414#section-2`.
  * - **status_attestation_endpoint**
    - It MUST be an HTTPs URL indicating the endpoint where the Wallet Instances can request Status Attestations. See Section :ref:`Credential Lifecycle` for more details.
  * - **display**
    - See `OpenID4VCI` Draft 13 Section 11.2.3. Array of objects containing display language properties. The parameters that MUST be included are:
        
        - **name**: String value of a display name for the PID/(Q)EAA Provider.
        - **locale**: String value that identifies the language of this object represented as a language tag taken from values defined in *BCP47* :rfc:`5646`. There MUST be only one object for each language identifier. 

  * - **credential_configurations_supported**

>     - JSON object that outlines the details of the credential supported by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. It includes a list of name/value pairs, where each name uniquely identifies a specific supported credential. This identifier is utilized to inform the Wallet Instance which credential can be provided by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. The associated value within the object MUST contain metadata specific to that Credential, as defined following. See `OpenID4VCI` Draft 13 Sections 11.2.3 and A.3.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - JSON object that outlines the details of the Credential supported by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. It includes a list of name/value pairs, where each name uniquely identifies a specific supported Credential. This identifier is utilized to inform the Wallet Instance which Credential can be provided by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. The associated value within the object MUST contain metadata specific to that Credential, as defined following. See `OpenID4VCI` Draft 13 Sections 11.2.3 and A.3.2.
```

            
            - **value_type**: String value determining the type of value of the claim. The values that MUST be supported by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider are *String* and *Boolean*.
            - **display**: Array of objects containing display language properties. The parameters that MUST be included are:   
                
                - **name**: String value of a display name for the claim.
                - **locale**: String value that identifies the language of this object represented as a language tag taken from values defined in *BCP47* :rfc:`5646`. There MUST be only one object for each language identifier.

  * - **jwks**
    - JSON Web Key Set document, passed by value, containing the protocol specific keys for the Credential Issuer. See `OIDC-FED`_ Draft 36 Section 5.2.1 and `JWK`_.

Metadata for wallet_relying_party
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The *wallet_relying_party* metadata MUST contain the claims as defined in Section :ref:`Metadata for wallet_relying_party`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *wallet_relying_party* metadata MUST contain the parameters as defined in Section :ref:`Metadata for wallet_relying_party`.
```
